# DEFACTO-Morphing-Database
Project for the course ‘Selected Chapters in IT-Security’. . I created an analysis and classification of the morphed images which were made by morphing two genuine images. Then visualized, calculated, and analyzed the scores, fetched them through Biometric analysis, and used Forensic analysis for the quality check.
There have been various approaches to the generation of doctored images through different techniques. In this paper, we have created an analysis and classification of the morphed images which are created by morphing two genuine images together. Images are morphed by some forgeries categories namely- Copy & Move, Splicing, Object Removal, and Morphing. We have used Morphing as a forgery technique for experimenting with the images.
In this Morphing technique, there are 3 methods that are mainly used, such as combined, splicing and complete. With that, we have calculated and analyzed the scores fetched through Biometric analysis and for the quality check we have made use of Forensic analysis.

Morphing is a technique that gives a transition to one image from another. Hence it is a fluid visual transformation of one to another image. [14]
It’s been used in many Hollywood films or in gaming purposes in video or computers and in creating animated movies. However, the morphing technique is not limited for the above purposes, instead, it is a powerful technique that intensifies multiple multimedia projects such as presentations, e-book illustrations, etc. [14] Morphing technique has been rapidly increasing and it has become very easy for anyone to create a doctored image and use it for any purpose. It is increasing crimes, fake identity, impersonation et al. The morphed images can be used by an imposter to sham the identity; hence it is very crucial to detect these types of scammers. [7]
Morphing is a procedure between two genuine images, wherein first, the specification of the correspondence point is initiated which is also called 'feature specification'.[14] Then the feature primitive of both the images is processed, which is mostly manual work. After which each primitive denotes the image landmark and then corresponding features of the mapping function are reckoned. Basically morphing process is a three-phase technique that mainly consists of feature specification, warp generation, and transition control. [14]
Numerous techniques have been made available for the detection of the doctored or morphed images and various categories have been used to analyze them. While morphing, many parameters are being taken into consideration, such as setting up alpha parameter, setting up methods to blend the images. We have used a ‘DEFACTO dataset’[8] to study a wide range of forgeries. It is publicly available and it is being used widely to compare the results. [8]
This dataset has been used for experimentation purposes meant to study doctored images and to analyze them. We have created many morphed images for each of the methods by using ANANAS web services.
